--------------------------------------------------------
working notes
--------------------------------------------------------





--------------------------------------------------------
work to do
--------------------------------------------------------

need to do for release:
	tune game length according to interest curves, tutorials etc
		probably do
			easy combat (basic tutorial)
				could fit a bit more game in here too, some stat building or something
			hard combat (losing game tutorial, build up companion power spike)
				want to make sure this doesn't feel too defeating - and that it is actually impossible. easiest to do this with fewest variables before it, so no random item rolls etc
			first companion (scenarios and companions)
			hard combat again but stronger (interesting items on which character)
			something here, some small goals or open exploration?
			knights (death triggers, aggro mechanics)
				maybe these guys are funneled - there's the open exploration part, which narrows into one possible tile
			The Game
	
	get the lethality working about right - enemies kill 2ish combatants, then perish. 2-3 turns for dying and 3-6 turns for living guys
		can wait for items to be in to balance
			not sure if items should give stats - while i do generally dislike the asi vs feat distinction, stats interact with the aggro system. also seeing an item with +40 str and a flower with +10 dex feels dumb?
	
	would really like a char sheet printout on game end, at least for playtesting
		can compare feelings/experience to the item rewards, and track trends
		ideally also shows rewards offered, elites fought
		spire, data driven balancing
	
	maybe slap some more combat log barks into items
	
	reward:
		have a basic_reward:bool flag that i can toggle or not as i desire
		have an array of reward:Array[Item] for other rewards
		consider a large array of rewards instead of picking a fresh random one every time - in database have Grab_Rare_Items(number_to_grab) which pop_fronts front an array of all rare items (if empty, regenerate)
			want to avoid getting the same rare twice back to back, and worse twice in the same reward screen
	
	
	items to add:
		intelligence items
		fortitude items
		stat spread rewards - buff allies for your lowest stat;
		basic attack items (no stats just attack)
		
		focus change stuff - the flanking sword seems like it does nothing aggro related, since it's mega agility you'll never have highest str? or maybe it's for sending you from 2nd str to 3rd/4th str?
			maybe it should be -agi but +attack?
		maybe items should have more split stats? instead of agility or str, be 3:1, 2:2, 1:3 splits? so instead of having a mega str and mega dex characters, you have stat spreads across your whole party
			flowers currently do this?
		more items that have no stats, but a powerful effect? so you can swap aggro around by loading items up differently
		
		item features to codify
			"on turn x" like bear's defense, stat_sum_burst
				this is probably a TurnCounterBehaviour to match ThresholdBehaviour item: TurnCounterBehaviour.new().setup(activate_on_turn=5, function_to_call)
					pass in a turn to activate, a callable function or a signal, and 
	-
	
	losing a fight feels bad movement wise - it's confusing why all the map is disabled
		if you only have 1 option, why not just automatically send you there?
		maybe just let you pass despite losing? i don't have anything walled behind beating an enemy? it's all exploration
	
	

recent playtest:

	i liked the day-night cycle, if a strong enemy is there i want to try to path to a few rewards before it
		it isn't really explained that well

	i didn't like the map info panel swapping sides, i was just getting used to the controls and it swapped
		probably doesn't really need to exist, just a tooltip popup on the map tile with the enemy?
			click away to dismiss it

	i like the spear threshold - it felt cool to try to go for, and great to achieve

	boss was super anticlimactic stat check, and instantly killed my dudes
		maybe bosses force to slower turn speed, and also have much higher hp and lower attack?
			maybe that means i should change the scaling items, i have lots of powerful scalers that dont get time to activate on regular fights
		i like the hydra idea too, have to beat some amount in sequence

	i liked the aggro swapping in theory, there wasn't quite enough meat there. also not explained well
		wanting to put the scaling damage on my lower stat guys was cool

	mind felt completely worthless
		didn't really put any items in for it i suppose
		also don't have a companion for it?

	not enough cool items, mostly stat flowers
		that was my intention, but it didn't really feel that great. maybe rare item rewards are just as sparse, but provide a selection of a few? i felt like i wasn't really making tons of choices or seeing many

	i completely skipped one companion
		wasn't required for balance or story
	
	i didn't really get to do any of the death effect stuff
		there isn't really any in the game right now anyways
		but enemies were too lethal and low hp for that - maybe one character dies and the monster immediately dies
			maybe the knights both starting with a revenger is too much? maybe one should have a healing thing?
	
	--
would be good:
	
	pass at text - rename enemies to slightly more generic (the marrow -> marrow behemoth), info panel says "your scouts" etc
		maybe put all the text in the ol strings global but seems like a large rewrite for little gain
		look at knight scenario - it mentions the amulet that hasn't been mentioned yet
		"iron" items? what's the deal with metals?

	inventory - trade/delete/unequip items?
		give rewards the "deleteable" property, false for cursed items? important character items?
		probably a drop down with each party member, and delete at the bottom with a confirmation? the label text changes from delete to you sure?
			how do i access who is in your party? allied combatants? surely not, that can be temporary. maybe i do want a global Party.gd?
	
	have nice tooltips set up, can still use placeholder art
-

database printing for ease of pool viewing: have a lil script in the database autoload which can print which items are in which category. maybe even categorize items as "dex build" or "str build" manually for my own sorting system, or maybe sort by additive dictionary has Stats.strength?

how to check if sprite is already in use? i don't want to re-use a sprite right now, plus knowing what unused sprites i have right now would be cool

sfx restructure - currently my SFX manager is inside the scene tree, so when i reload scene (pressing the restart button), it cuts all playing sfx out
	the SFX manager should be an auto load as well, like the background music manager
	and those two managers should probably be very similar, the same if not inherited

have a few of the crow sounds and randomize them, instead of the same single one

would be nice to show a character portrait in this intro scenario

scenarios only have "next page", no choices
	would be nice to have scrolling text for blurb, not probably implement once i know how i want them to look/work with choices

active effects / attuned items, mayhaps

little dark fade background for text pop up?

tile/scenario feature: check something, and present scenario accordingly. eg. if you've visited before, do second step of scenario (if you've visited before BUT NOT completed quest, do third step of scenario which is "come back later nerd")
	could do elder scrolls journal step system?
		maybe a scenario_step function on the scenario, and a selection of pages[] arrays. when entering, do a function to check what page array to actually load, then do that
		or maybe have different literal scenario scripts, and a master_scenario holds a selection of them, and when doing the check it loads a certain one
			maybe check master_scenario and it returns a scenario, for all those events
			i would kinda prefer all the scenario to be on one file probably, cleaner for fetch quest with multiple simple steps to them
			but if i want modular scenarios like a generic area looted, settlement abandoned, etc; would be better for master to load sub
				i guess i could do both lmao
		
		make sure this doesn't interfere with the map_tiles reloading/re-generating on day start\

	alternatively, could just do if-statements per page
		if quest_complete, then page1 = "good job!"
		else if not quest_complete, then page1 = "come back later"
		
		seems clunky, i think i would rather the journal-step type system
	
	
	implement: redo the tutorial as a hut at the very start, you go get ring, come back, trains you to beat the skeleton forest wall
	
	also note currently the page step system is a bit fucked - the item_test_scenario.gd skips page 2 for the reward, but not page 4 for the combat??
		not sure exactly how i want this, but i should streamline it
-

some sort of sidequest system, specifically for companions? not sure how this should look or feel
	maybe trigger dialogue pop up, on quest flag changing? maybe every day transition dialogue pops up at camp/after resting, quest-related if something happened? so it doesn't feel as "you did the thing that checked my box so here's my story"

probably should get that infinite-combat-breakpoint somewhere
	could quickly have a main menu -> forfeit combat option
	would like it to be systematic at some point
		maybe each side only takes turns as long as they have stamina? and without stamina you instantly die?
			stamina = total stats? probably want it to scale a bit with game length (ie. more turns possible at end of game due to more complicated builds/higher hp), but not too drastically, there can be really long fights with small stat values
				can just hardcode 50 turns or whatever for now
				probably do this in the combat_manager
				make sure to put a custom combat log message or something, so it's clear why the combat randomly ended
-


stats:
	i kinda want health and damage to be separate, so i can have temporary damage boosts without affecting health, and can tweak enemy hp more easily
	str = big hit, %damage?; dex = per 10 dex do a second hit for 10 damage?
		things can trigger off hits (maybe dex would trigger wayy too many times though)
		things can increase your dex hit damage
		
	currently my int idea probably doesn't work - the current idea was "use awkward mechanics to trivialize certain countered enemies", ie. enough shield ends the fight and stuff. if the idea is enemies are so strong they kill a party member or two asap, and die to the chips from the rest, one character will basically never get strong enough to counter an enemy? not sure what int does here? it's also purely defensive?
	
	maybe i should type damages more quickly, and str is %physical, %force damage; dex is %precision, %wind damage; int is %fire %lightning %shadow
		and different items provide different stats and different damage types somehow?
		not sure what determines what damage you do, i guess that's what main attuned weapons are for? they have a unique effect and damage type?
			you're able to change a weapons damage type at some point?
			some items proc a certain damage type eg. moon kris does wind damage procs?
-

would be nice to find a way for the tile_tutorial_fetch rewards to be on the tile, not in the spawner script
	not sure how, but i do want to do this regularly - have an array of something on the tile, that the spawner can draw from
		instead of currently the spawner assigns rewards to be something in the spawner logic
		id rather the spawner decide who gets index0 and who gets index1 from the tiles possibility array
		
		i guess the tile should have it in generate_encounters? but i want there to be 1 special ring and (number of rows - 1) normal rings on the rest of the column. the tiles can't know that
			i guess the spawner generates an array for each row [1,2,3], then shuffles, then does generate_pool_based_reward(value)
				generate_pool_based_value(value)
					if value == 1:
						reward = special_ring
					else:
						reward = regular_ring
		
		could also have a function on the tile to generate an array of items based on a table setup
			generate_reward_pool(number_of_rewards) -> array
				var array_to_return
				
				array_to_return += special_ring
				number_of_rewards -= 1
				
				while number_of_rewards > 0:
					array_to_return += basic_ring
					number_of_rewards -= 1
				
				return array_to_return
				
				and spawner gives every tile pop_front from that shuffled array?
				
			have that function on every custom pool tile. easy to repurpose and individualize. can combine in tile function if i find myself repeating
				not sure when that should be called, since not all tiles need it. i guess just manually in the spawner, and have an error in the tile if reward isn't spawned?
					not sure where to put that error, reward will just be blank?
		
		make a lil-question mark item/aura as a dev placeholder for these kinds of tiles
-

day and night cycle	change textures (can probably wait for the shill)

move main.gd functions relating to the buttons to main_ui.gd (new)

clear that ghost array when pushing more combatants from a maptile than im ready for (combat_ui_manager.assign_enemies_to_ui())

would be nice to support multiple rewards
	esp as we have multiple combatants, winning 3 items would be rad

fix/remove debug commands

have a "pre-turn" turn for combat start effects
	combat log "prepares for attack"

have a proper mechanism to check if it's fine to pass time forward by pressing the button
	probably related to save games - have a "somethings happening" value, and whenver that is set to about to be changed, save the game?
		i may want to autosave the game before the choice is made, so you can go back and pick the other choice ala slay the spire


combat log race conditions - equipping a new item that pushes you past an existing threshold, barks the threshold active first, then the new equip second - when i want the new equip to be first, because that's what actually happened
	i think this was intentional - in the equip script i run the functions before the combat log (because i figured i'd only say something once it's done), but i think i probably should combat log first, then do consequences

also: first combat log message isn't getting a space
	why am i putting a space lmao, just make a margin container?
-

inventory ui doesn't update unless you re-open it, unlike the combat log

ui-wise, maybe set the main button to "focus" on opening panels, and bind "focus" to spacebar or something. i want to be able to move faster through things, using spacebar maybe

after routing/dying i have to go back to an old tile, go through the old ground screen. would be nice if it was instant, or it instantly moved me back to last tile, or something that feels better
	maybe just add the old ground popup to the tooltip of the scenario?


--------------------------------------------------------
playtest notes
--------------------------------------------------------

people keep pressing the skip button for the treasure
	- the reward doesn't look like a button, it's too flat and unresponsive. have it stick out, change when hovered over, have a particle glow, etc
	- maybe given you know what the reward is, it's obvious you get it - why would you ever skip it?
	- maybe given all the unimportant text (three full lines top and bottom that don't actually convey any meaning), it looks like exposition?
		changed text to "skip reward"
	- maybe have an animation - as the player reads "collect your boon", the boon fades in, tying them together
	- maybe people don't feel like they "need" the reward, and are just going wandering through the game? no challenge at the start / problem to solve? no hook?

people keep having no idea how the map/map info panel works
	- the info panel is so far away from what you clicked, it's not natural to hover over the info
	- the info panel is also quite verbose, so why would you search for more info
	- the whole map looks cool and inviting, why show it all if it's all nothing
	- have the map slide in, and then the player icon thing pops up on a side. should be more clear?

richard passed on that their friends mentioned being "locked in" to a build at the start
	note too sure on this feedback - it was given while the map balance was too light on rare rewards, so all rewards were indeed common stat sticks. could simply be solved with more items and stats, which we already plan to do
	- have more avenues that can change per run?
	- have a "flexible" unique at the start, not a build definer? a strong immediate stat stick, or something that increases found rarity, or the like
		find build definers mid run?
	- could also be avoided by choosing a class at start, instead of an item; feels less like random chance is locking you into a build?



--------------------------------------------------------
concepts i know i should tutorialize:
--------------------------------------------------------
how-to-play-the-game:

	reward buttons dont look like buttons - most buttons don't, in fact
	time system - maybe have an early event which you run into during the day, but requires it to be night and you get told to wait for night or something


how-to-understand-the-game:

	user interface
		i like unlocking them as you do things with them - combat log after the first enemy with a unique effect, inventory after getting an item etc

	percentage multipliers rounding down, maybe even each step
	item effect ordering vs auras
	fighting rares early means being able to fight two rares?


--------------------------------------------------------
debug keybinds:
--------------------------------------------------------
	KEY_F11 = crt filter on/off, main.gd 73

func _unhandled_input(event: InputEvent) -> void:
	if event is InputEventKey and event.pressed:
		if event.keycode == KEY_F11:
			crt_filter_container.visible = !crt_filter_container.visible


---------------------------
not right now, maybe:
---------------------------
getting offered a 20 stat flower and a basic 30 stat common item, especially both same stat after first combat, is confusing
	not sure how to handle that, only show flowers for a while?

maybe player can target enemies?
	not sure on the ui for this

entropy roll system:
	entropy:Dictionary[StringName, int] = {Stats.crit_chance = 20}
	maybe Random.Entropy as a dictionary of variant, dictionary  - a reference to a source and its entropy dictionary. when an entity wants a random value, it calls Random.roll(self, roll_name, 20) and to roll a 20% chance under roll_name

add combat failsafe
	if both combatants can't kill each other, it goes forever
	(like oaken tower/battle royales, hp damage if no winner)
	maybe a rout/concede button
	maybe a trigger on turn X that calls a stalemate
	depending on story event, it maybe shouldn't be a loss
		when plundering a castle for loot, stalemate = loss
		when defening a town from monsters, stalemate = victory, for now?

map overhaul:	
	some sort of fog of war type thing, instead of the darkened tiles
		maybe both? fog covers completely invisible tiles, and darkened covers tiles you've seen but not able to access; ala civ fog of war
		i kinda like being able to sorta see what's coming, but i do think fog would look sick. maybe fog for past-the wall type locations?
		have it so the map does scroll to the center, not start at the left, and have fog to the sides?
			two levels of scouting range, traversable-range and visible-range (probably hardcoded per act)
	
	how to do the wall? big tile? actual gap in MapTiles?
		feeling a gap in tiles. spawner just creates a sprite thing with width = 2x tile_width
	
	not sure about map tooltips, the map info panel. it popping up over the map sounds terrible, and it popping up over the right hand side also sounds bad
		what do i need this info for? what do i want to show? if we're doing ftl-like exploration, no need to plan ahead
		in my playtests it seems more fun to build your character up, than to counter specific enemies, so no need for map info (except for rewards)
			so designate tiles as "magic/chest/event/etc" rewards? codify types of rewards between active items, passive stat items, rare defining items, etc

	add in parallax
	
	i could have the map be a scroll-container like thing, where arrow keys / mouse edge panning / scroll wheel moves your camera across the map. left and right sides bound it
		i kinda like not knowing what's comming next, having it unveil
	
	have the spawner take a ChapterMapData object
		has fields for columns, special things to put in special locations (like wall at end or start) etc
		would be nice to not have this spaghetti function as the spawner, it is a bit unwieldy. not sure what i'd replace it with
-


combat overhaul:
	active effects
		items with active effects
			basics: double attack for 2 turns; deal 30 damage immediately; all party members get 10 attack for a turn
		have it so you can click anytime, and when it's locked in, that character will now do it on their next turn (put in a check before the attack)
			would be nice to have a way to do after attacks too? probably?
			
			or maybe just do it instantly?
				i don't really wanna break logic chains, feels like it should be turn related like everything else
				but i want it to feel big and impactful, and do the big powerful thing when you click it.  maybe the pause and animation will do that enough?
				maybe having it sequence break is cool and rad
					i dont really trust my logic-making skills for this though
		
		have them cost hp
			not shield, and be non-lethal - so you can negate the cost by focusing on shield and not hp, intelligence build
				non-lethal damage, when taking damage have a "lethal" optional argument, and at the end if hp <= 0, if non-lethal hp = 1
		
	primary/derived stats
		probably str/dex/int or similar. choose one as primary, and deal that as damage, rest gives you bonuses?
		derived like dodge/mana regen/crit chance
			str - more damage and health (basic stat check number go up gameplay)
			dex - crit chance (entropy based, and things trigger on crit, crit multiplier etc. glass cannoney interaction based builds)
			int - more mana / ability damage (burst, situational, big brain time)
		
	climactic fights?
		if normal monster fights are only (if hp <= 0, failure); then a longer boss fight requires proportionally less attack value, which is not as scary to see the boss with less attack than a regular dude (even if it's 1/2 attack and 4x hp for 2x total power)
			maybe have healing in boss fights? make them back to back phases (where you have beat 4 of 5?) ala he is coming hydra
		maybe make normal fights permanent loss of something?
			i don't really want to do straight hp ala slay the spire, feels too punishing in an autobattler
			mana? followers? supplies?
		really not sure what to do for a climactic fight with this combat system
			phases with cutscenes/dialogue?
		change the ui a bunch during a lethal fight - the dark wrought iron turns bright and covered with blood? (as if you were in darkness before but now can see the horrors)
-


item overhaul:
	maybe do this after basic stat system?
		
		
	2 categories - attuned and non-attunement
		any item can also be "active" where it has an active effect. maybe only attuned items?
	some limited attunement slots, 5?
		can play with these, say a character has an extra or one less, maybe an event can bestow you with an extra slot, maybe an item attuned for 20 game turns transforms into something stronger or more cursed
	infinite non-attuned items, things like rings of protection and broaches
	
	generally the attunement items are cool and unique and have triggers and the like. the non-equipped are smaller but still tangible rewards from events and other interactions
	
	items are different from auras since you can re-equip them around. auras you cannot move
		can play with this too, an event could let you move 5 auras around or something
	
	make sure to tutorialize well - "attuned" and "not attuned" could very easily feel like "getting benefit" and "not getting benefit" - make it clear non-attuned items still give a benefit. "attuned" and "equipped" perhaps?
		give all attunement items some base stats you still get when not-attuned (and active items some non-active benefit) - so there's still benefit and use to finding items when your slots are full
		can balance around "item reward" where attunement and non-attunement have similar base power effects, and balance around you have ~5 attunement items. no need for items to be more or less powerful
			gives constant power growth
				could consider not wanting this - maybe i want all items to be sidegrades? only attunement slots, so you can choose your build, and maybe get a slight power upgrade sometimes, but mostly just be 5 inventory slot guy?
				currently i like the constant growth, but good to consider
		make sure there's noticeable fx and ui for where the items go, and their effects, so it's clear they are working in their respective places
			have the tooltip broken into sections for "on equip" "on attuned" "on activation" which each grey out / light up as you put into respective places
		tutorialize an early combat where you need to attune or unattune a certain item
		
	so i want each combatant to have their inventory, with 3 arrays of slots to put items
		for now, i'll skip active and attunement, and just throw everything into the infinite "equipped"

	so do i need a global inventory?
		would let you completely unequip items?
		seems like a noob trab like the skip button?
		
	how else am i going to send items between combatants? i was thinking a dropdown, but how does the dropdown know who's who?
		well i guess the dropdown will have to be bespoke anyways
			i suppose i could use that instead of the half portrait ui
				i do like you usually using the same interface as combat though
				can items maybe be sent through that ui?
					would have to close the character/inventory screen though, i don't want to do that
					
	so no global inventory, just like auras, only components on combatants
-

big ui overhaul
	can open and close pop ups - can hide combat to browse the map, can hide event text (on game loss) to browse the combat log
	
	some fadein/outs for restarting/combat/panel popping in etc. dither fades? blood pouring down from the top?
		decouple the change/to from of the portrait into a big boy manager, so it won't re-animate between combat->reward
		
	combat:	a turn counter somewhere?
	
	"player" on map be an animated guy that does stuff, instead of an instant sprite change on map_tile
		would be nice to have a path of progress on the map too
	
	stat screen polish/features:
		separate stats tab into temporary and permanent auras, somehow?
			can filter by duration==permanent pretty easily...
		
		stat screen showing the math to get your current stats?
	
	add mouse blocks or something, so you can't interact with the map while in combat
	
	make sure labels won't overflow with long numbers. set their clipping to true, and maybe if clipped add a tooltip?
	
	would be nice if i just had a "all stats" dump on a ui page, which was just current_stats.values : current_stats.keys
		currently can't see my crit chance or crit multiplier, or any other stats i add
-

turn animation, i removed the end of turn slow down
	not sure how to see into the future right now, but it would be nice to slow down near the end

pixel tracks are louder than classical tracks
	i think i'm supposed to put them on separate audio busses and have them be lower there? and swap between busses instead of replacing streams? but then how does the volume slider work?
	could also edit the sound file before importing to godot i guess

https://alkakrab.itch.io/snowfall-ambient-music-pack

put the endless battler back in after the boss is beaten?
	at least for now?

could put a +-10% in the scale stats to power function

combat log could have a collection of colours, and can pull from that when emitting a custom message
	instead of hard coding into functions
	maybe like StatNames, TextColours.Enemy is red

a debug console: spawn items, enable whole map, dump item database of rarity, increase stats. maybe even hotkey some of these
	can also just do lil bandaids, like "should start with" in item fields

a button on the map info panel to hide it immediately would feel good
	maybe a slide bar handle?

random seed system, so you can replay a certain combination etc
	print seed to console, or show in debug window in main menu
	
make the tooltip nice and good and cool
	would be nice if tooltips showed on click too, esp for touch devices
		if on touch device, click = tooltip, click if tooltip = actual click?

save and load, spooky
	look into saving resources directly - if not, can change combatantData etc to refCounted

make a bunch of cool items and enemies
	look at he is coming for examples of things i want to implement

make some hotkeys for stuff
	make sure to remove focus hotkeys from all my buttons or something

map tile info could fade out

different map tile setups (thanks mr. fenn)
	first map could be the current 3x15 straight line
	next map has a giant ravine through the middle, have to choose a fork early
	next map has interactivity, choosing certain events breaks and opens certain forks; spending time/power to build a bridge to get loot, but only if a certain character in the party

a target dummy - if i want a big inventory system, and build swapping, it'd be quite nice to be able to test your new build (to find fatal flaws that would end your run and feel bad)
	can tutorialize- when swapping 3+ items, npc tells you "hey wanna test it on this dummy"
	also good for debug testing
	can have it "at camp", maybe in the rest menu popup?
	want to make sure not to enable certain items, say you have a demon sword which strengthens after shedding 200 blood

go back and save builds for each milestone, for archaelogy's sake. for not-worrying-about-permanently-breaking-the-game's sake, preservation. 

--------------------------------------------------------
to research:
--------------------------------------------------------
look up old might & magic, ultima, and others.. find more modern takes, or reason there's no modern takes

look up ice-related mythologies, siberia etc

other autobattlers
	item slot battlers: backpack battler, super auto pets, bazaar, etc
	real time with pause rpgs

https://trello.com/b/u4nqJwNI/lieutenant


--------------------------------------------------------
other neat ideas:
--------------------------------------------------------
have a mage companion that lets you click off visible, beneficial auras

have a weapon that transforms after x attacks / x health damage dealt

hotkey f12 to open an ingame calculator lmao

enemy mercenary team is trailing you, picking the options you didn't take - so if you want to backsies and pick the other options from 10 choices ago, you can eventually?

flappy cameo, balloon in the distance



----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
things i know are hacky and should be cleaned up (or super duper back burner changes):
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------		
i worry about on_damage_taken loops
	if something does something that makes you take damage with this function, it loops infinitely
		maybe each item has a "cooldown" that clears on turn end, and "on_damage_taken" functions use that cooldown
			can probably put in the item manager
		currently i have it so most things check if source != self, which should prevent loops?
			but prevents cool interactions, and cool interactions i allow will fall into this loop trap	
		
	damage_taken triggers on taking 0 damage
		not sure if i want this, i suppose not? based on wording
		i may want on_attacked as a similar trigger, that doesn't go crazy?
			
item custom auras (like enrage_sword) currently hook onto expiration signals, maybe they should be a weakref?

target.take_damage() feels hacky, probably should be parent_combatant.deal_non-attack_damage(), which reads the target?
	maybe not, i want these target.take_damage to be like damage riders? maybe i should make it more like that then - pass in the Damage object, and modify it, before sending it off?
	the combatant creates an AttackDamage object, and passes that by reference into each inventory function, and those modify it in order?
	sounds like an expensive rewrite for little gain right now

map_spawner.gd loads map tiles with an @export, where everything else in the game loads path names from Database. wonder if i should change either to match?
	having the database with @exports sounds dank and too much manual work
	having the map tiles all have id's also sounds dank

adding a new triggered event is crazy - combatant adds a function, to check its own function + item managers function + aura managers function - and those managers need a function to check every child's function - and those children all need a function
im copy pasting the same function, slightly different arguments, 8 times!

the BackgroundMusicManager is its own audio player global object, but SFX are on Audio_Events? seems inconsistent. the two should probably have a parent class too, instead of copying behaviour

enemy tooltips on map panel (or elsewhere) show all their stats, even benign things like default crit multi with no crit chance
	would be nice to have some sort of importance filtering? maybe custom tooltips for enemies only?

thresholdBehaviour requires you to create_threshold, then on a second line check_threshold, to account for a race condition
	 i don't really like this, it'd be nice if it was built in

time of day is a global script, not tied to the game instance

the ui is currently being managed by main.gd, which i don't want main.gd to do. i want the time of day actor to be indepedent
	but i couldn't figure out who to parent it to - not the combat, since you care outside combat
	not the map, since it's not map related
	it is a ui button
	
	it's also not attached to the game atm, because when i reload the scene tree in main.gd, it doesn't reload, since it's a global
	
	i want anyone to just be able to check what time it is easily, so global made sense
		like the maptiles want to scale/spawn enemies based on time of day, i don't need every map tile to hear updates about the time changing
			i guess now that i think about it, a tile hearing the new_day_event is what is happening right now, can just add the day_number to the payload?
			i guess if i want items and enemies and stuff that change based on time of day, they need to know?
				still can just be a signal sent out on daytime change, and on hearing that you change states? no need to check daytime any other time right?

check out orphan nodes periodicially for memory leaks

settings menu (save to json?)
	speed for each speed setting, default speed?

no error checking at all for > 4 combatants on either side

combat manager -> ui manager is not respecting combat order, which you will want to respect when you care in what order you take turns/trigger effects

combat log should probably have the print functions (eg aura applied and removed) as a function, that takes a string + colors + variables, or something. DRY

could break the whole map tile system into events - instead of map tiles with specific enemies and rewards and functions, those can be in events. map tile is just an animation and an event. can pick from many events. doesn't really change functionality right now, but it is more continuous

clicking on two tiles that have the same enemy and reward looks really bad
	the panel doesn't update at all, looks like a bug

combat manager array of combatants - do i want a separate living_combatants array? do i need to know which creatures are there, but dead? should i just use the one array, but put not dead checks in everything?
	currently i just have the one array, and yeet combatants from it. i probably want to keep them at some point, for corpse related shennanigans when fighting multiple enemies

maybe auras should have x combats, or until end of act, designations. good event rewards

auras vs items should be better designated, different coloured borders maybe?

map tiles are spawned starting at 0,0 - it's more natural to me to start at 1,1. i can change it all to not be 0-indexed
	although 0,0 being the half-off-screen border is good, 1,1 is the first real tile

the map info panel is a vbox/center container hybrid abomination. probably want to codify this into the bottom info is anchored to the venture button, and text grows down, or something? idk

clean up the item "on_attack" timings - currently crashing waves +attack applies after vampiric blade 50% healing, no matter the inventory order
	probably just await(item_in_slot.on_attack) or something
	also maybe support inventory slot juggling
	potentially codify whether auras are before or after items (probably after, since i want items to spawn "surging waves" on combat start, and trigger after attacks)
	
	not sure if this is still true with new inventory system - but something similar is still a problem. you'll want different triggers at different times, and you can't control that (or even really see which order) right now

z-indexes for ui are hardcoded into scene tree hierarchy
canvaslayer layers are not codified - i just put the pause menu as 99

tooltip esp for items
	would be great to have flavour text smaller/grey and italicized
	would be great to also have a preview of their auras

aura folder structure is flexible, item folder structure is rigid. would like item to be flexible too, so i can randomly categorize things
	there is thought to NOT categorizing by folder structure - so i have to categorize by code....
	can always just search in godot file structure search bar

take a pass at my instiated var's - some should probably be consts

writing strings in the code, instead of a spreadsheet for localization etc
	even as dank as button tooltips on control nodes hidden in the scene tree
	plus some tooltips get updated in code, some in editor, nightmare to change a specific one i don't know about

using pick_random(), but no random seed management

"inventory is full" greying out items is case by case basis - should probably be in the item tooltip? when that comes. or maybe when hovering over, it turns the custom cursor into an X?

ui has a bunch of minimum pixel sizes - this is probably a fine practice, but things like the combatants numbers getting fucked over 3 digits is not good

hmmmm something is fishy about combatant damage - the combat manager calls for the combatants to take damage based on their attack, which seems bad cause the stat manager might care about custom auras reducing damage from goblins or something. also maybe damage taken should be saved on the player aura thing?

the unique id thing is instance_id + current clock time? sounds super fucked. does it even work on all clocks? what the hell is an instance id, and am i sure you can't create two instance_ids at the same second?
	should probably deal with this when learning how to save the game

timing architecture:
	the timing of "on_scene_ready" architecture in inventory_manager.gd should be project wide
	using async and deferred calls and shit, i should have a much better understanding of when code gets called (instances get created), and maybe even a "timing manager" that signals when to fire events in order

signals are a bit disorganized:
	the signal busses aren't really organized by their title very well, codify that distinction
	when reorganizing signals, consider what tense to use - "combat_won" only makes sense if i assume to have a consistently player-focused tense. i think i should use an unbiased tense? player_defeats_encounter?
	
	combatant: the signal that sends out when a stat is updated, should be on a function wrapper for editing that value; not just tacked onto functions that edit that value
	ui only updating on signals may be good practice, but it could also update every frame? currently i have to remember to put a signal whenever anything changes ->> i should wrap the signal *into* the change functions

the scene changes should be fully fledged - main manager deletes/instantiates the combat ui and manager and combatants, deletes/instantiates reward screen, etc	
	hm now that i think about it, there isn't an obvious reason for this. i don't run timers or process on anything, so them being invisible is fine?
		but it future proofs me for if i want to run timers or processes - especially with animations
	there also isn't really an inherent benefit, it's faster & signals work better when they just always exist in reserve

have code be more readable - by future me, and richard:
	_get_configuration_warnings() to popup on gui when things aren't setup right
	do a code pass, try to explain it on video
	or maybe some just readme files in each folder?

i've got some hard reference to children in scripts, which rely on their string name
	can set an @export instead of a $reference, and then check_exports() using my catchall function

clarify 'base stats' - esp in statmanager.gd. base as in "before combat damage/temporary effects" or base as in "before items" ?

do a getter-setter pass, especially for things that hook into ui updates
	consider underscoring certain stats i don't want accessed from outside

add a button somehwere in the main menu to open the saves folder (it's different on each os, and can't bake it in since idk where they will install it on their pc)
func _on_open_saves_button_pressed():
	# OS.shell_open handles the translation from user:// to the real path
	OS.shell_open(ProjectSettings.globalize_path("user://"))
	
	# Opens the folder and selects the specific save file
	var save_file = ProjectSettings.globalize_path("user://save_01.json")
	OS.shell_show_in_file_manager(save_file)
also apparently
	Project Settings > Config > Project:
		Enable Use Custom User Dir.
		Set Custom User Dir Name to something like MyStudio/MyGameName.


--------------------------------------------------------
to do, but lower priority:
--------------------------------------------------------

discord:
grab and post some inspirations
	rad codex stuff, mostly horizon's gate open world vs dungeons. classes and art vibes
	darkest dungeon

clean up the github webhook:
	it double posts for web pushed builds
	it double posts for local branches
	it doesn't include the commit description
	https://docs.github.com/en/webhooks








--------------------------------------------------------
disorganized brainstorm - will have weird overlaps with design doc and discord
--------------------------------------------------------

eunuch-inspired: maybe magic requires spoken word, so mute people are in high demand as assisstants/librarians to old knowledge? the only ones who can be trusted with its safekeeping?
	maybe skeletons melt in the presence of gold/mithral, so gold/mithral is used as currency and skeletons are bankers?

ftl like combat - auto battler but you choose where your attacks will go
	fencing, attack certain body parts?
	mount & blade commander - choose what part of the battle to send your troops?
	magic rune stuff - choose what part of their alchemy circle to attack?
	angry birds/jenga - choose what part of their structure to attack?
	literally ftl, ship battler
		-pirate ship! attack crew, sails, or hull?
			and you could be exploring islands, fight mythological sea creatures && enemy pirates && sea police?
			choose which islands to sail to (different resources), choose different skills to train/books to read (better vs different enemies)
			enemies: hull (hp), crew (doing bad stuff to you), sails (move speed
			what about instead each vector has a cost: hull = less treasure, crew = less reinforcements, sails = less ship sell price? this is also hull
				non-hull are ftl-like rooms, where hitting them reduces stats. sails reduce dodge/armor, crew reduce their output
				pirate have all, sails slow down enemy, shoot crew to remove their cannons/archers/mages, shoot hull to damage hp
				sea monsters have no sails so sense of dread/running away, shoot crew/eyes/tentacles to make weaker (they have utility? squids shoot ink?), shoot hull/body to damage hp
				automaton ships (not sure, ghosts? robots?): no crew so fixed damage, but 
				
	
something something nile river, time limit is the river flooding


all of the above:
	water is going to flood, this archipelago will be cleansed
	..but there's a bit of time to pirate first!
	go to islands to steal treasure!
	fight off other pirates, and more!
	fight off the super sea beast when it comes to swallow the land... and live to tell the tale
	
	go to islands, get some gold (random and/or difficulty?), and some power (new spell? new cannon?)
	ftl like combat - hit any part of the enemy, deal hull damage. you choose which part to hit (stat to drain etc). autobattler
	pick 3 reward from island
	pick new island to travel to
	
	
he-is-watching-like autobattling roguelike project
stats and builds: different build patterns that get tested against different enemies
adventure and challenge: uncovering new enemies and not knowing how long you'll survive

goal is to successfully iterate an original, fun game into existence.
	strong project management (somehow juggle thorough design doc + iterative testing?)
	fun game in the end (lots of sid-meier playtesting, use game design literature to check, lots of community playtesting)


stats
--------------------
basic archetypes:
strength/fighter - basic big boy beefy basic stat checker. high damage, some armor, low speed
dexterity/rogue - basic glass cannon. very high damage with special moves, no armor, medium speed
wisdom/ranger - ranged class, has clear strengths and weaknesses. medium damage, no armor, high speed
intelligence/mage - niche, has explosive strengths and damning weakness. cripples enemies with status effects, but has no stats if the status doesn't cripple the enemy

flat damage/armor - lets the basic fighter essentially win/lose with clarity. complicated status effects can be boiled down to a stat check (eg. thorns is just extra attack damage)
long campaign with little recovery - lets speed be a source of regen/mitigation, not just a damage buff
specific bosses - lets you return to runs with knowledge and think up counters
--------------------


general design thoughts
--------------------
make sure to start with the fighter - if the basic gameplay doesn't feel good, the gimmicks will definitely not. (and helps with scope creep)

probably autobattle + slay-the-spire map

will struggle with game-feel and agency, if it's just "pick from 3 (but really just pick the one that fits your build)" and then autobattle

want to make sure players read the enemies weaknesses/strengths and play to them - so maybe start each battle by letting the player pick which weapon to use? loadout 1 vs 2? sword and shield fighter picks sword (+damage) or shield (+armor); two handed chooses charge (+speed) or stance (+damage)?
	have familiar enemies with prefixes - a wolf is a basic enemy, fast wolf has high speed, large wolf has high health. bandit is a basic high speed/no retaliation enemy, archer bandit is even faster, pair of bandits even stronger

meaningful choices: re: showing the bow options to a player who already picked the sword stuff. why show them if they are not viable options?
	there are lots of answers to this question, just make sure it's answered thoroughly
		can sell for gold, pillars/brotato-like where "range" effects melee and ranged identically, etc



random notess
--------------------
He is Coming suffered from negative choice progression by diluting the ability to make a build with cool new archetypes. maybe instead use "characters" with different drop templates? playing the mage guy lets you see the "core set" items, and "wizard" items
have the little map curve like horizon's gate water globe :D to avoid weird fog of war
one-row map, instead of a slay-the-spire style? looks cool. the shorter side could be more difficult (fewer spaces for campfires, all combat?), but i think that'd be unintuitive - a player would easily think the shorter path is easier
16px black background style sounds cool
have some weather effects in the background like thunder or falling leaves based on the "zone"?

aesthetics: not basic forest fantasy, probably. interested in slightly obscure cultures - sumerian? egyptian? check out civ games? old english/nordic folklore?

have the final boss be someone/thing that follows you and chooses the paths you didn't take? a San Juan-inspired "choose what's best for you... AND not best for your opponent"
	treasure hunters? fight over the last treasure?

one event: witch's hut with riddles?

this can be paper prototyped to figure out fun events/levers to work with

big specific risks (space invaders shoot the saucer or stay locked in): have the boss/opponent start stronger than you, and you can challenge them whenever. both of you are growing in power, them exponentially and you linearly. they are strong, then you, then them. you have to choose when to risk it all (also works to self select difficulty, opposite of bullet heavens where you live longer if better) (this can also let veteran players compete on speedruns AND high scores, because both are impressive)

slay the spire map mechanic, but diegetic:
	tavern / rumourmonger gives boss tips (i heard the terrible beast has a thorny hide)
	in town, choose 3 "things to do", boss tip could be one.
	see past failed adventurers (this dead rogue has thorns all over his thick armour)

attribute changes how the character looks - subtly and over time
	change the sprite/model not immediately after increasing stat, next load screen or something
	like in fable 1, in the jail scene you notice how ripped your strength build is - or how your mages jail clothes float with magic
	can also save pictures of your character (at the end of their roguelite journey?) in combat, and maybe even have player pick from some to put on their tombstone etc